src/docs/Hooks/3.TaggedHookServices.md, before:

Tagged Hook Services
====================

This is the new and correct way to define hooks for Core-2.0. The old methods remain functional in Core-1.5 but will
no longer work in Core-2.0.

In order to provide or subscribe to hooks, a module must implement a service and tag that service with 
`zikula.hook_provider` or `zikula.hook_subscriber`. The tag must also include an `areaName` argument.
The `areaName` must be unique and should follow the naming scheme:

  - `<type>.<name>.<category>.<areaname>`
    - `<type>` must be 'subscriber' or 'provider'
    - `<name>` should be the module name (e.g. 'zikulafoohookmodule')
    - `<category>` must be a defined hook category (e.g. 'form_aware_hook')
    - `<areaname>` should be unique to the module but is typically related to the entity being hooked to (e.g. 'pages')
        for subscribers or descriptive of the content being hooked for provides (e.g. 'comments')

The service class must implement the appropriate Interface

  - \Zikula\Bundle\HookBundle\HookSubscriberInterface (extends HookInterface)
  - \Zikula\Bundle\HookBundle\HookProviderInterface (extends HookInterface)
  - \Zikula\Bundle\HookBundle\HookSelfAllowedProviderInterface (extends HookProverInterface)
  - \Zikula\Bundle\HookBundle\HookInterface (not for implementation, provided here for reference only)

For example:

    zikula_foohook_module.form_aware_hook_subscriber:
        class: Zikula\FooHookModule\HookSubscriber\FormAwareHookSubscriber
        arguments:
          - '@translator.default'
        tags:
            - { name: zikula.hook_subscriber, areaName: 'subscriber.zikulafoohookmodule.form_aware_hook.foo' }

See the extended docs `3a.TaggedHookServices.Subscriber.md`, `3b.TaggedHookServices.Provider.md`
`3c.TaggedHookServices.SelfAllowedProvider.md` for more information about the implementation of these service classes.


Comparison & Upgrade from Core-1.4/Core-1.5 Hooks
-------------------------------------

  - **Do not** provide a container class (`\Zikula\Bundle\HookBundle\AbstractHookContainer`).
  - **Do not** register/unregister hooks in the installer/uninstaller (as they are no longer persisted).
    - If upgrading old hook types to new non-persisted style, use `$this->hookApi->uninstallSubscriberHooks($this->bundle->getMetaData());`
      in the upgrade routine to remove old-style hooks.
        - All old hooks will automatically be removed when upgrading to Core-2.0 because the relevant tables are removed.
  - **Do not** add hook capability tags in composer.json.

Commit message:

remove checks between persisted and non-persisted hooks to avoid name collisions.

src/docs/Hooks/3.TaggedHookServices.md, after:

Tagged Hook Services
====================

This is the new and correct way to define hooks for Core-2.0. The old methods remain functional in Core-1.5 but will
no longer work in Core-2.0.

In order to provide or subscribe to hooks, a module must implement a service and tag that service with 
`zikula.hook_provider` or `zikula.hook_subscriber`. The tag must also include an `areaName` argument.
The `areaName` must be unique and should follow the naming scheme:

  - `<type>.<name>.<category>.<areaname>`
    - `<type>` must be 'subscriber' or 'provider'
    - `<name>` should be the module name (e.g. 'zikulafoohookmodule')
    - `<category>` must be a defined hook category (e.g. 'form_aware_hook')
    - `<areaname>` should be unique to the module but is typically related to the entity being hooked to (e.g. 'pages')
        for subscribers or descriptive of the content being hooked for provides (e.g. 'comments')

The service class must implement the appropriate Interface

  - \Zikula\Bundle\HookBundle\HookSubscriberInterface (extends HookInterface)
  - \Zikula\Bundle\HookBundle\HookProviderInterface (extends HookInterface)
  - \Zikula\Bundle\HookBundle\HookSelfAllowedProviderInterface (extends HookProverInterface)
  - \Zikula\Bundle\HookBundle\HookInterface (not for implementation, provided here for reference only)

For example:

    zikula_foohook_module.form_aware_hook_subscriber:
        class: Zikula\FooHookModule\HookSubscriber\FormAwareHookSubscriber
        arguments:
          - '@translator.default'
        tags:
            - { name: zikula.hook_subscriber, areaName: 'subscriber.zikulafoohookmodule.form_aware_hook.foo' }

See the extended docs `3a.TaggedHookServices.Subscriber.md`, `3b.TaggedHookServices.Provider.md`
`3c.TaggedHookServices.SelfAllowedProvider.md` for more information about the implementation of these service classes.

WARNING: The new service **does not** check for name collisions between the old persisted-style area names and the new,
non-persisted hooks. Care should be taken to avoid identical names.


Comparison & Upgrade from Core-1.4/Core-1.5 Hooks
-------------------------------------

  - **Do not** provide a container class (`\Zikula\Bundle\HookBundle\AbstractHookContainer`).
  - **Do not** register/unregister hooks in the installer/uninstaller (as they are no longer persisted).
    - If upgrading old hook types to new non-persisted style, use `$this->hookApi->uninstallSubscriberHooks($this->bundle->getMetaData());`
      in the upgrade routine to remove old-style hooks.
        - All old hooks will automatically be removed when upgrading to Core-2.0 because the relevant tables are removed.
  - **Do not** add hook capability tags in composer.json.
