src/docs/Core-2.0/Themes/Config.md, before:

Theme Config
============

file: `/Resources/config/theme.yml`

Status: Required

Must: define a 'master' realm

Description: define various 'realms' within a theme. Within a realm, a pattern is defined that is used by regex
to match the (1) path, (2) route id, or (3) the module name. The realms are matched from top to bottom returning the
first match (case-insensitive). Therefore, more specific definitions must be higher than general definitions.

Two additional 'alias' realms may be defined and neither requires a pattern:
  1) Defining an 'admin' realm will be used when `@Theme('admin')` controller method annotation is detected in the method
  2) Defining a 'home' realm will be used when the path = `/`

Any block positions in the page's template must be defined here.

Do not duplicate realm names or later entries will override previous entries


Optional Values
---------------

 - bootstrapPath
    set a full path from the site root to override the core bootstrap.css
    - e.g.: `bootstrapPath: themes/BootstrapTheme/Resources/public/css/cerulean.min.css`
 - blockWrapping
    set a boolean value to indicate whether ALL blocks will be wrapped with a unique container `<div>`
     - e.g. `blockWrapping: false`
     - default: `true` (if no parameter is set)
     - WARNING: certain core functionalities (e.g. collapseable blocks) require this `<div>` and break without it.

Commit message:

modify how bootstrap override paths are used (method is BC with old full path)

src/docs/Core-2.0/Themes/Config.md, after:

Theme Config
============

file: `/Resources/config/theme.yml`

Status: Required

Must: define a 'master' realm

Description: define various 'realms' within a theme. Within a realm, a pattern is defined that is used by regex
to match the (1) path, (2) route id, or (3) the module name. The realms are matched from top to bottom returning the
first match (case-insensitive). Therefore, more specific definitions must be higher than general definitions.

Two additional 'alias' realms may be defined and neither requires a pattern:
  1) Defining an 'admin' realm will be used when `@Theme('admin')` controller method annotation is detected in the method
  2) Defining a 'home' realm will be used when the path = `/`

Any block positions in the page's template must be defined here.

Do not duplicate realm names or later entries will override previous entries


Optional Values
---------------

 - bootstrapPath
    set a zasset-type path to override the core bootstrap.css - the file is then stored in your Theme's
    `Resources/public/css/` directory
    - e.g.: `bootstrapPath: "@ZikulaBootstrapTheme:css/cerulean.min.css"`
 - blockWrapping
    set a boolean value to indicate whether ALL blocks will be wrapped with a unique container `<div>`
     - e.g. `blockWrapping: false`
     - default: `true` (if no parameter is set)
     - WARNING: certain core functionalities (e.g. collapseable blocks) require this `<div>` and break without it.
